the sin of Judah is written with a pen
of iron with the point of a diamond it
is engraved on the tablet of their heart
and on the horns of your altars while
their children remember their altars and
their wooden images by the green trees
on the high hills oh my mountain in the
field I will give as plunder your wealth
all your treasures and your high places
of sin within all your borders and you
even yourself shall let go of your
heritage which I gave you and I will
cause you to serve your enemies in the
land which you do not know for you have
kindled a fire in my anger which shall
burn forever thus says the Lord cursed
is the man who trusts in man and makes
flesh his strength whose heart departs
from the Lord for he shall be like a
shrub in the desert and shall not see
when good comes but shall inhabit the
parched places in the wilderness in a
salt land which is not inhabited blessed
is the man who trusts in the Lord and
whose hope is the Lord for he shall be
like a tree planted by the waters which
spreads out its roots by the river and
will not fear when Heath comes but its
leaf will be green and will not be
anxious in the year of drought nor will
cease for meal DHing fruit the heart is
deceitful above all things and
desperately wicked who can know it
I the LORD search the heart
I test the mind even to give every man
according to his ways according to the
fruit of his doings as a partridge the
broods but does not have so is he who
gets riches but not by right it will
leave him in the midst of his days and
at his end he will be a food a glorious
high throne from the beginning is the
place of our sanctuary Oh Lord the hope
of Israel all who forsake you shall be
ashamed
those who depart from me shall be
written in the earth because they have
forsaken the Lord the fountain of living
waters heal me O Lord and I shall be
healed
save me and I shall be saved for you are
my praise indeed they say to me where is
the word of the Lord let it come now as
for me I had not heard you away from
being a shepherd who follows you nor
have I desired the woeful day you know
what came out of my lips it was right
there before you do not be a terror to
me you are my hope in the day of doom
let them be ashamed who persecute me but
do not let me be put to shame
let them be dismayed but do not let me
be dismayed bring on them the day of
doom and destroy them with double
destruction thus the Lord said to me go
and stand in the gate of the children of
the people by which the kings of Judah
come in and by which they go out and in
all the gates of Jerusalem
and say to them hear the word of the
Lord you kings of Judah and all Judah
and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem who
enter by these gates thus says the Lord
take heed to yourselves and bear no
burden on the Sabbath day nor bring it
in by the gates of Jerusalem nor carry a
burden out of your houses on the Sabbath
day nor do any work but hallow the
Sabbath day as I commanded your father's
but they did not obey nor incline their
ear but made their neck stiff that they
might not hear nor receive instruction
and it shall be if you heed me carefully
says the Lord to bring no burden through
the gates of this city on the Sabbath
day
but hallow the Sabbath day to do not
work in it then shall enter the gates of
the city kings and princes sitting on
the throne of David riding in chariots
and armed forces they and their princes
accompanied by the men of Judah and the
inhabitants of Jerusalem and this city
shall remain forever and they shall come
from the cities of Judah and from the
places around Jerusalem from the land of
Benjamin and from the lowland from the
mountains and from the South bringing
burnt offerings and sacrifices grain
offerings and incense bringing
sacrifices of praise to the house of the
Lord but if you will not heed me to
hallow the Sabbath day such as not
carrying a burden when entering the
gates of Jerusalem on the Sabbath
day then I will Kindle a fire in its
gates and it shall devour the palaces of
Jerusalem and it shall not be quenched